Hi.
We didn't this lecture you going to see how to create Ellard messages.
So these messages are just small pop up messages.
When we try to give some Ellard or some message to the user so they can see what's going on and they
can take some actions regarding to those messages.
So in order to do that I'm going to create a single view app and I'm going to call this project Elliot's
project or something because we're going to create a registration form in here in which we will have
the user name and password and password to.
So if any of this information is given incorrectly.
For example if user leaves the user name blank we will display an alert message saying that you have
to go to and user name.
So this is a real functionality that we will be using during we make real apps in the upcoming lectures
upcoming sections.
Okay.
So you have to learn how to create these alert messages in all of the apps you will need.
So let me create this design first.
I'm going to start with text field came in which I will get the user name password and password to.
So first let me get the user name.
So let me make this central.
Let me go to attribute Spain.
And we have to go to a place holder and say user name so user will know they will give user name in
here.
Right after that I'm just going to copy and paste is with control comments see and comment V.
This will be our password taxed.
So I'm going to say password and then we're going to copy and paste this one more time.
So this will be password again.
So we are going to check if the first password matches the second password.
Okay.
So this is a classical registration form you see in this kind of apps.
So if these do not match then we will display an alert message as well.
So later on I'm going to go for button.
OK.
So this will be over register or sign up or save button.
So let me make this a little bit bigger and I'm going to call the sign up so user will sign up using
this button and that's it.
OK.
So maybe we can make this a little bit Central.
And even we can just drag a label in order to have a title in our app so we can call this the registration
app or alert message app.
Okay so that's our app will look a little bit better.
So let's say the users sign up.
So this is a basic user sign up.
We have controller that you can use in your own projects.
So let me reset to suggest constraints and then we're going to open our weave controller.
That's in and another assistant editor.
And we're going to control drag and drop and just define those text fields.
We don't need this label right.
We we can just go for this text field so for text field I'm going to go for the user name text.
OK.
So let me get the second one.
We will call this password tax password.
Text and then we can go forward turned one which is password to text or password again text.
So I'm going to call this password to text.
So for the last one I'm going to control drag and drop this button as an action and I will call the
sign up clicked.
OK here we go.
Now we can close this down and we can actually go and head back to our real controller dot swift because
we're going to create our first alert message.
So let's do that in sign up clicked function.
OK so first of all I'm just going to show you how to create this Alex box when you click on those it
will just display it later on we are going to do our if controls or if statements and in order to create
Ellard message we're going to create a variable called Elliott.
And of course we agreed to use a class for that.
It's already built in the Swift.
So we can just get that and I use that in our project.
So it's called UI alert controller.
Okay.
Not UI alerts action but you are alert controller.
So we're going to see what a UI alert action is later on.
Right now we have to create this alert controller.
As you can see this is an object that displays an alert message.
If you open parentheses you will see the required parameters like this.
So we're going to go for just turned one the parameters of title message and preferred style.
So title is actually the title what will be the title of our message.
Something like air will do the job.
Now we can go to message.
This will really display a message you know alert bugs.
So I'm going to go for user name not found for example.
OK so user will see this messaging and other alert message box.
So first style if you click enter over here you can choose four different styles.
So if you click enter and hit dot you will see that it's going to be either an action sheet or an alert
every want to alert.
In this case so actually sheet is kind of a menu.
But we want alert.
So again we have created this UI Elliott controller now we can present this to users by saying self
we have controller so self refers to we have controller remember self that presents.
So if you say present it will ask you what to present.
So we want to present this alert that we have created.
So you can just say alerts here.
OK.
And if you create some other views later on you can present it using same technique.
So I'm going to go for alerts and it's going to be animated.
Why not just say through and completion it asks for if I'm going to do anything when this operation
completes I don't need that kind of thing right now so I'm going to say Neal and we will have some kind
of completion later on in this lecture.
Don't worry about it.
So let's build this and see if we can get this as an alert message and let's test if this will do the
job or if we will make another adjustments over here.
So if I click on sign up as you can see I get the message.
OK.
So this is working but I cannot get out of it.
So wherever I click it doesn't these appear.
So I don't have anybody right now saying okay or cancel or go back I don't have that kind of thing so
I cannot go back right now and this is not what I want.
So this is displaying so it's OK.
But we add we have to add some new things to it like we have to add a button.
Right.
So in order to create this button before we present this alert message we have to add an action to our
alerts.
So we are going to say this is going to be okay by them for example and for you.
OK.
But I'm going to use UI alert action and this UI alert action again will ask me for a title and a style
and a handler.
Where are you going to see what a handler is.
So title is going to be the text that we will display in the bottom.
So this is going to be something like Okay or cancel.
Go back.
I understand.
Okay.
So I'm going to go for.
OK.
So sale we have different kinds of styles here.
If you hit enter and hit that you can see those styles like we how Council's style.
We have default destructive.
You can't try these cycles.
It shows the button in a different way.
If you use those for example if you're going to destruct or if you're going to delete something you
can go for destructive.
If you're going to cancel the operation you can go for cancel.
This only changes the display of the button as I said.
So it did.
It doesn't affect the code or it doesn't affect the action itself.
So I'm going to go for default but later on you can try to go with cancel and distractive to see how
does that look like.
So in the handler.
So what do you want to happen if someone clicks on this button.
So this is very you write your code in order to do that you have to hit enter.
And if you don't want something to happen if you just want to dismiss this button you can't say Neil
here as well.
But I'm gonna go for that and hit enter.
It will create a UI Elliott action in here.
So this is a variable if you want to interact with the UI Elliott action itself.
So I'm just going to go and hit enter and the part that we're interested in is the coding part itself.
So as you can see chose us with code.
So whenever someone clicks on these you you okay button if I want something to happen I will write insight
of these codes and this will be called.
Okay using this variable.
So this generates its for itself.
All you have to do is just hit enter on you when you see the handler itself.
So I'm just gonna say button clicked and let me just do a print statement here button clicked so we
can actually see it in the logs.
And later on since I created this.
Okay by then since I created the UI Elliott action I have to connect this to my alert itself.
And in order to do that I will say Elliott dot ad action.
Okay.
It will ask me for a UI to action.
I'm going to say OK.
Button.
So that's good.
I believe now we are ready to test is actually so let's run this into simulator and let's see how it
looks like.
So you're going to see the same thing again.
We're just going to go and sign up and as you can see now we houses the okay button over here.
If I click okay it will dismiss the message and you will see but then clicked.
So whenever you create an okay but only if you use an handler in the handler you can write whatever
you want it to happen after these messages dismissed.
So by then clicked works and that's all for right now we have seen how to create an alert message.
Now it's a little bit challenge for you.
I'm gonna suggest you posed the reader here and you try to come up with an algorithm that says user
name not found.
If user name text is blank and if if it's okay it's going to check for the password text and if password
is missing it will say password missing and then later on it will check to see if password text on password
to text do not match and it will give a related error message.
So you're going to have to create a sign up registration form with Elliott messages that just controls
if user name text is given if password text is given.
If passwords actually match so posed the video tried to do it on your own.
And if you can do it that's great.
If you cannot.
Don't worry we will do that together in the next lecture.